@comment %**The "Introduction" chapter

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

This manual attempts to explain the functionality offered by the
@emph{lastword} library from the @emph{Makefile Standard Library}
project.  Due to the nature of this project, implementation details
will be omitted whenever possible, because an implementation is not
offered by this project but by a sibling project under the same parent
project, which conforms strictly to this specification and follows
the suggested guidelines.

Given that this library is a small software component of a much bigger
project, an explanation of the ecosystem and the problem it tries
to solve is included.  The explanations of the problem and its solution
are also available in the manual of every single software component of
the parent project, and a complete manual is also available for the
project as a whole.

Last but not least, the licensing of this project was initially thought
to be a copyleft license (such as GPL or LGPL), but later was changed
to a permissive license (the MIT license).  The freedoms the GPL license
and its derivatives guarantee are good for the end user, but this
project is not very likely to benefit from them, because most of the
rights take effect when the software is distributed (or conveyed,
as the GPL license states) and a build system is usually not distributed
with the project that uses it, but only its configuration files.  A
build system that could benefit from licensing would be Gradle, which
ships a wrapper that is recommended to be commited and is JVM-based
(so write once run everywhere), but even in that case, only the wrapper
would be protected and the license stops being useful once the compiled
files are distributed, because they do not use nor are linked to
the build system that was used to produce the artifacts.  I hope
a permissive licensing helps this project being widely used, that
we all can benefit from the improvements made by the community and
that one day this project becomes deprecated because it has been
superseded by the @emph{make} specification/standard.
