\input texinfo


@comment %**start of header
@setfilename libmsl-lastword-dev.info
@include version.texi
@settitle MSL Lastword Library @value{VERSION}
@syncodeindex pg cp
@documentencoding UTF-8
@allowcodebreaks false
@afourpaper
@comment %**end of header


@comment %**start of summary description and copyright
@copying
This manual documents version @value{VERSION} of the MSL lastword
library.
@vskip 5pt
@include mit.texi
@end copying
@comment %**end of summary description and copyright


@comment %**start of directory
@dircategory Software development
@direntry
* libmsl-lastword-dev: (libmsl-lastword-dev)Make's @emph{lastword} development manual.
@end direntry
@comment %**end of directory


@comment %**start of new indices
@defindex sy
@defindex mc
@defindex ci
@comment %**end of new indices


@comment %**start of title page
@titlepage
@title MSL Lastword
@subtitle Lastword MSL Library
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Esaú García Sánchez-Torija (@email{egasato.dev@@gmail.com})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage
@comment %**end of title page


@comment %**start of the top node
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top General Content
This document is a manual explaining the usage of the library from
the programmer's and user's point of view, available as an ANSI C
API and a single-purpose program.
@end ifnottex
@comment %**end of the top node


@comment %**start of the table of contents
@shortcontents
@contents
@comment %**end of the table of contents


@comment %**start of the master menu
@menu
* Introduction::
  Common introduction for all the MSL libraries.
* Why?::
  Why does MSL exist and what problem does it try to solve.
* API::
  An explanation of the exported symbols and how to use them.
* Invocation::
  The user interface of an hypothetical program.
* License::
  Copying and sharing of this Software.
* Indices::
  All the indices used in this manual.
@end menu
@comment %**end of the master menu


@include introduction.texi
@include why.texi
@include api.texi
@include invocation.texi


@comment %**start of the license
@node License
@appendix MIT License
@include mit.texi
@comment %**end of the license


@include indices.texi


@comment %**end of the document
@bye
